B.E Mechanical Engineering, since 1951
Programme Coordinator (G1) : Dr.Kannan K
Programme Coordinator (G2) : Dr.Rajenthirakumar D
Accrediation Status : upto 30/06/2028

The department has evolved a comprehensive student-centric learning approach designed to add significant value to the learner's understanding in an integrated manner through workshops, lab sessions, assignments, industrial training, seminars, internships, projects, and independent study. The hands-on training offered at PSG Industrial Institute brings in a formal method of familiarizing with the industrial practices and the educational process; it helps the students apply their classroom knowledge to live industrial situations. There is also a substantial value addition in the department through the participation of the students and faculty in solving real-life problems of the industry directly through project work and through continuing education programmes for industry participants. Machine Tool Research Centre (MTRC) has been established in the department to pursue research in the thrust areas of alternate material development towards the performance enhancement of machine tools. The Government of India financially supports the center. The department has a library and an engineering design center with the latest design and analysis software. The department has a team of highly dedicated faculty members involved in research activities in addition to academics. The department has established many centers and laboratories with support from industries such as FESTO, Rane, Ashok Leyland, Veljan, and National Instruments. Through collaborative and research projects, the department maintains a close liaison with many universities and industries within and outside the country. The department has been actively engaged in industrial consultancy and testing services for the industries in and around Coimbatore. Many sponsored research projects have been undertaken with funding from various agencies, viz., DST, AICTE, AR&DB, ISRO, DRDO, BRNS, IGCAR, ADA, etc. The department offers B.E. (Regular) and B.E. (Sandwich) programmes in Mechanical Engineering, M.E full-time in Engineering Design, Computer Integrated Manufacturing, Industrial Engineering, and Energy Engineering, and Ph.D. programmes. The NBA has accredited the UG and PG programmes offered by the department.