Department of Apparel & Fashion Design  2014

HOD's Desk
Welcome to the Department of Apparel and Fashion Design.

The department of Apparel and Fashion Design was started in the year 2014. The department offers a five year integrated programme in MSc Fashion Design and Merchandising, first of its kind in the National level.

The programme aims at equipping students to face the intellectual demands imposed by the fashion & apparel industries and also to become entrepreneurs.

The curriculum has been designed meticulously to equip the students with the knowledge required for pursuing a wide range of careers in designing, production and management. It gives students the opportunity and freedom to choose the specialisation necessary for their choice of career with the help of professional electives, open electives and internships. The courses are blended with practical components to explore, experience and gain hands-on skill. Students visit to the industries in each semester to keep themselves abreast of the industrial practises. Cluster visit and craft documentation is also a part of the curriculum which enables them in learning the Indian traditional arts and crafts from the artisans in the clusters.

The department has laboratories for pattern making, garment construction, embroidery and CAD equipped with the latest machinery, software and systems to enable the students to work practically and be adapted with the latest equipment in par with the industries. The students are encouraged to participate in co-curricular and extracurricular activities to expose their talents. Students are also given opportunities to undertake International Summer Programmes for 2 to 3 weeks at various reputed Universities; this will build their confidence level and give a wide international exposure.

The department has a team of dedicated faculty who focus on the continuous development of the students and constantly strive to help them in achieving their professional ambition. The faculty regularly attend various training programs to be abreast of the happenings in the industry for an efficient teaching and learning experience. They are into many research activities in collaboration with the industries.

Regards


Dr.Vijayalakshmi D. ,Professor & Head