HOD's Desk
It is with great pleasure and enthusiasm that I extend my warmest greetings to Department of Computer Applications, PSG College of Technology.
The Department of Computer Applications at PSG College of Technology is proud to offer a comprehensive and highly regarded Post Graduate Programme in Computer Applications - Masters in Computer Applications (MCA).
The programme MCA was started in the year 1983 with a goal of fulfilling the need for skilled professionals to drive technological progress. Since inception, we have stayed true to our mission, consistently adapting and expand our offerings to meet ever changing demands of the tech industry. Department of Computer Applications provides an environment that nurtures the talents of students, inspires their aspiration and encourages collaboration, creativity, and critical thinking. We take immense pride in our proven strength - the ability to transform eager students into accomplished professionals. This hallmark of our department is what sets us apart and fuels our dedication to excellence. Our alumni are shining in various sectors, including IT, Banking, academia and Entrepreneurs. They are not just employees but thought leaders, innovators, and change-makers.
Our approach to education goes beyond textbooks and beyond technical proficiency. Our curriculum is carefully designed to instill qualities such as teamwork, leadership, ethics, and adaptability, ensuring that our graduates are well-rounded individuals ready to excel in any professional setting. We also equip our students with the soft skills and ethical values that are essential for responsible and compassionate leadership in the world of technology.
Our department legacy is a testament to the dedication of our faculty, the enthusiasm of our students and the unwavering support of our Management and Principal.
We will continue to provide the top –tier education, foster ground-breaking research and projects and empower the next generation of professionals in computer applications. Together we will carry the torch of excellence forward, building on the strong legacy that began in 1983. We will continue to push the boundaries of knowledge and make a positive impact on the society through the field of computer applications.
Wishing all a very great success!



Dr.Chitra A. ,Professor & Head